captera ads can be an absolute bidding
bloodbath I spent just over a million
dollars on captera ads within a single
year and during that time frame my cost
per click increased by 72 percent now
the reason for this is because captera
follows a pay-to-play model in terms of
their bidding they allow the advertiser
who is willing to spend the most per
click to win the top spot for their
different ad categories so if you're
bidding on these different categories
within captera if you're willing to pay
the highest cost per click they are
going to elect to show your ad over your
competitors now this isn't true for all
categories captura is rolling out
quality score but it is in beta at the
time of this recording and it's not
available for all the categories meaning
it's still very much a bidding bloodbath
and if you're not careful you're going
to notice your cost per click price is
going to increase dramatically if you're
competing in very competitive categories
like I was so with that I'm Silvio Perez
and in today's video I want to teach you
how to offset these increased costs on
cap Terra ads and show you three things
that really help me optimize Pipeline
and revenue from my captera ad campaigns
so with that let's get into it the first
thing you're going to want to do is
you're going to want to audit each one
of your categories contribution towards
Pipeline and revenue if you're just
relying on the native conversion
tracking data that you have available
within the captera ads manager I can
almost guarantee you that you're going
to scale things incorrectly you're going
to put more budget towards categories
that you think are performing well and
less budget towards those that are
actually performing well so you're going
to want to avoid that by setting up
custom UTM links for each individual
category so that way you can segment in
your CRM to understand which category
actually created a lead that hopefully
turned into an opportunity that
hopefully converted into Revenue so you
can backtrack back to that captera
category to understand that that
specific category actually drove this
bottom line impact for you so then from
there it's really easy if you know that
you spent you know a thousand dollars on
a specific category and it drove ten
thousand dollars a pipeline then from
there you can backtrack and you say hey
I'm willing to accept this average cost
per click and I'm going to use that to
inform my bidding decisions you just
want to avoid leveraging the conversion
data only on captera it's not just a
captura thing it's just the state of
tracking today on the line with the
browsers and the state of privacy and
everything like that it's never going to
be an accurate source of Truth so set up
those custom UTM links if you haven't
already that's going to give you the
visibility you need so you can keep
captera honest and then inform your
bidding decisions in a very informed and
bottom line-centric way the second
second thing you're going to want to do
is you want to focus on bidding on
positions two to five versus the first
top spot I kid you not I have seen
ridiculous drops in cost per click based
on the average position it's not
uncommon depending on the category
you're bidding on to literally see a 100
difference in cost per click price based
on a certain spot for example maybe you
know you'll see position one is 55.50
position two is fifty five dollars and
20 cents and then position three can
just drop off dramatically to something
like twenty five dollars twenty dollars
you know in that small example just
bidding on position three versus one you
can literally cut your cost per click
price by about 60 percent and you're
still going to get visibility because
you're on the top of the page now as you
get a little bit lower than position
three and you start to go into position
four position five that's when you're
really gonna start to notice a drop off
in volume so if it is a really good
category for you this is where you need
to be sensitive and kind of play with
the different positions but generally
early speaking I have noticed really
good results bidding on the second spot
and the third spot compared to that
first spot I can't prove this but I
almost have this theory that a lot of
people will just go to the category page
they click on the first thing available
just because it's there they bounce and
then they come back and then they click
on the second spot and then the third
spot and then if they're serious they'll
usually go past the third spot and look
at the other listings available as well
the third thing you're going to want to
do to offset your increased captera cost
is to make sure that you're creating
personalized experiences for your top
performing categories now one of my
favorite quotes by a stoic philosopher
called epitus is control what you can
cope with what you can and concentrate
on what counts you cannot control
captera prices increasing that's only
something kept Tara can control and
hopefully they roll out quality score
and they get that under control but for
right now there's nothing you can do
about it the only thing that you can do
is outside of bidding on Lower positions
to stop overpaying for the first spot
also auditing your categories and making
sure that you're tracking what needs to
be tracked so you can optimize
accordingly the last thing at your
disposal is improving your landing page
conversion rates if you can get your
landing page conversion rate to start
converting from let's say five percent
to ten percent that is a massive
difference in performance and that alone
can help you offset these increased
costs that are inevitable from captera
ads so make sure that you're really
focusing on your top performing
categories once they've proven
themselves then this is where you can
start to use web personalization tools
to dynamically personalize the content
of that landing page based on the person
that comes from that specific category
and that can help you increase your
conversion rates or if it makes sense
even consider creating a dedicated
landing page per category if it's really
working well for you and you're getting
a lot of success from captera ads
already based on your current setup
captera is an amazing channel for
capturing demand and sometimes it'll
really work work well for certain
industries so if it's working for you
already take advantage for as long as
you can just don't get too comfortable
because those cost per click prices will
inevitably rise so you're going to want
to make sure that again you have the
visibility with those custom utms you're
bidding on the optimal position so
you're not overpaying and then finally
you are improving your landing page
experiences you're running a B test and
you're increasing your conversion rates
to help offset these increased costs I
hope this video was valuable if you can
give this video a thumbs up that'll help
me out a ton and if you like content
like this then be sure to subscribe for
future uploads and if you want more B2B
advertising content then go ahead and
check out adconversion.com and join the
ad conversion newsletter we're going to
get sent two to three actionable tips
every single week thank you so much for
watching I'll see you in the next video
take care